=head1 Perl Monger Frequently Asked Questions

Please send any suggestions or corrections to user_groups@pm.org

=head2 General Questions

=head3 What is Perl Mongers?

Perl Mongers is a loose association of international Perl User Groups.
Individual groups vary a great deal in the details of what they actually
do, but in most cases they are groups of Perl users in a particular 
location who get together periodically to discuss Perl and related
topics.

Perl Mongers is also the name of the organisation that oversees and
co-ordinates the local groups. It also provides internet services to
these groups. Perl Mongers was originally set up as a not-for-profit
organisation in the state of New York, but in July 2001 it joined with
Yet Another Society.

=head3 Is there a Perl Mongers group in my area?

The list of currently established groups is here [NOTE: Add link]

=head3 How do I start a Perl Mongers group?

Simply find some Perl hackers in your area and ask them if they'd be
interested in starting a group.

Experience shows that having a mailing list and a web site help to
drum up interest in your new group. Almost certainly you'll already
have access to servers to set them up on, but if you need help with 
that, we will gladly supply both web space and a mailing list.

The only other thing to do is to let us know about your new group
so that we can add you to the list of established groups 
[NOTE: Add link].

=head3 Can you provide people to speak at our meetings?

Perl Mongers can't actually provide speakers for you. Who do, however,
maintain a list [NOTE: Add link] of well-known people from the Perl
community who have indicated that they are happy to speak to Perl
Monger groups when they are passing thru the area.

=head2 Internet Services

=head3 What Internet services can Perl Mongers provide?

If your group does not have a local server that you can use to host
a mailing list and a web site then we can host it for you on our server.
If you want to host your mailing list and web site locally then we can
provide a pm.org domain that points to your server.

To set up your web space and mailing list on our server, please email
tech@pm.org.

To set up a pm.org domain pointing at your server, please email dns@pm.org.
Please ensure you include the following information:

=over 4

=item *

new numbers or names for A or CNAME records

=item *

new numbers and priorities for MX records 

=back

=head3 Why does it sometimes take awhile to get Perl Mongers services set up 
for my group?

Perl Mongers is an all volunteer organization, and almost all of our system 
administrators have very demanding commitments outside of Perl Mongers. We 
do things as quickly as is reasonable considering all of our other 
commitments. Additionally, there's nothing stopping you from operating 
your group while you are waiting for your Perl Mongers services.

=head3 How do I set up my group's web site on the Perl Monger server?

You'll be given a username on the server. You can use C<ssh> to log in
to the server (we don't allow C<telnet> or C<ftp> connections).

Your group's web directory is in your login directory. It's called www_docs. 
Your log files are in www_logs. 

You also get mod_perl and full cgi access. these haven't been tested 
extensively, so let us know if you run into problems. If you want something 
we don't offer, just ask. The web server configuration files are in 
/opt/apache/gocho.pm.org/80/conf if you want to see how things are set up. 

There is no explicit cgi-bin directory. CGI programs are recognised by the
extension .cgi.

Server side includes are turned on for files ending with the extension
.shtml.

We don't implement a quota system, but people using the server as an MP3
library (or anything with similar space or bandwidth usage) I<will> be 
noticed - and removed from the system.

=head3 How can I administer my mailing list 

Some older lists are still run using C<majordomo>. You can administer
these lists using the standard C<majordomo> email interface. We also
have a web interface at L<http://www.pm.org/majorcool/?module=modify>.

All new lists (and many of the older ones) are run using C<mailman>.
Users can access their C<mailman> configuration at
L<http://www.pm.org/mailman/listinfo/I<E<gt>list nameE<lt>>. List admins
can access the list administration page at
L<http://www.pm.org/mailman/admin/I<E<gt>list nameE<lt>>>.

=head3 You use C<mailman> on a Perl web site? Are you a secret Python
programmer?

C<mailman> is better than C<majordomo>. Deal with it.

=head2 The Perl Mongers logo

=head3 Can I make my own camel logo?

The camel used in association with the Perl language is a trademark of 
O'Reilly & Associates. Thus, you would have to ask them, although we can 
help you go through that process if you need to. Be warned that this can be 
a lengthy process and that only the most professionally designed logos are 
likely to pass muster with O'Reilly. You should seriously consider using the 
existing Perl Mongers logo which was chosen after almost a year of effort and 
many trips back to the ad agency.

=head3 Can I use the Perl Mongers logo?

Perl Mongers groups can use the logo that appears on this page on their own 
web page as long as they include the following text somewhere (able to be 
clearly seen) on the page:

"The use of the camel image in association with the Perl language is a 
trademark of O'Reilly & Associates, Inc. Used with permission."

Use of the Perl Mongers logo in other media is evaluated on a case by case 
basis since Perl Mongers is legally liable for its misuse. Our license with 
O'Reilly & Associates requires us to report misuse of the Camel logo with the 
Perl Mongers name. Help us not get in trouble.

=head3 Can I change the Perl Mongers logo's color, size, and so on?

You can only use the image as you find it. Additionally, you cannot 
incorporate it into a larger logo or make it look like it is part of a larger 
graphic. If you have other needs, we might be able to work something out. We 
will, however, be less willing to work out special situations if we have to 
ask you to remove an improperly used logo before you ask us. We are legally 
liable for misuse of the logo. 

=head3 Who created the logo?

Smith & Jones Advertising and Marketing developed the corporate image and 
handles all of Perl Mongers logo placement needs. The camel image is used 
with the permission of O'Reilly & Associates.

=cut
